---
layout:	default
title:	"Python"
category:	code
date:	2021-11-02 08:00:00 -0000
permalink:	/code/Python
---

## Links to resources:

- Approaches for data analysis can be found [here](/code/Python/Data_approaches)

- Take a look [here](../code/MATLAB) for a list of similar errors and common ways to debug them in MATLAB

- For summary on DataTypes in Python, [here](/code/Python/DataTypes)

- `pandas` DataFrame info, [here](/code/Python/DataFrame)

- Common errors in python, [here](/code/Python/Errors)

- Data Visualization summary, [here](/code/Python/DataVisualization)

- Functions in Python, [here](/code/Python/Functions)

- Iterations and iterables, [here](/code/Python/Iterations)

- Handling Datetime, [here](/code/Python/Datetime)


## The Zen of Python, by Tim Peters

Written by Tim Peters. Can be retrieved using `import this`, which gives:

- Beautiful is better than ugly.
- Explicit is better than implicit.
- Simple is better than complex.
- Complex is better than complicated.
- Flat is better than nested.
- Sparse is better than dense.
- Readability counts.
- Special cases aren't special enough to break the rules.
- Although practicality beats purity.
- Errors should never pass silently.
- Unless explicitly silenced.
- In the face of ambiguity, refuse the temptation to guess.
- There should be one-- and preferably only one --obvious way to do it.
- Although that way may not be obvious at first unless you're Dutch.
- Now is better than never.
- Although never is often better than *right* now.
- If the implementation is hard to explain, it's a bad idea.
- If the implementation is easy to explain, it may be a good idea.
- Namespaces are one honking great idea -- let's do more of those!

