---
layout:	default
title:	"Working with Date and Time"
category:	code
date:	2022-01-22 09:00:00 -0000
permalink:	/code/Python/Datetime
---

## Package `datetime`

- This package has several modules which can be imported to analyze time data.

---

- `datetime` module
```
import datetime as dt
date = dt.datetime(2022,1,25,15,53,43) # datetime object allows specification of datetime in the following order - Year, month, Date, Hours, Minutes, seconds
print(date)
print(dt.datetime.today())
```
will print out:
```
2022-01-25 15:53:43
2022-01-25 16:32:27.002518
```

---

- Datetime can be parsed from a string by using `.strptime()` method
```
dt_string = "2022-01-22 1:00:01"
dt_format = "%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S"
print(dt.datetime.strptime(dt_string,dt_format))
```
Prints out the date: `2022-01-22 01:00:01`. From a datetime object, extracting specific information is possible using `print(date.strftime("The person was seen on %Y/%m/%d at %H hours, %M minutes on the street of D.C."))` to print *"The person was seen on 2022/01/25 at 15 hours, 53 minutes on the street of D.C."*

Note: %Y = year, %m = month, %d = day, %H = hours, %M = minutes, %S = seconds	

---

- `timedelta` module
```
import datetime as dt
time_diff = dt.timedelta(hours = 10)
date_new = date + time_diff
print(date_new)
```
Prints out `2022-01-26 01:53:43`, which is 10 hours ahead of the original date.
	
	- Using `total_seconds()` method on a timedelta object give total seconds elapsed between the two datetime objects compared in the timedelta object. For example, `time_diff.total_seconds()` will give 36000 seconds (10 hours * 60 * 60)

----

- `timezone` module
```
import datetime as dt
ET = dt.timezone(dt.timedelta(hours=-5)) # Eastern standard time, timezone object
#adding timezone to date info
dt_with_tz = date.astimezone(ET)
print(dt_with_tz)
```
prints out: `2022-01-25 15:53:43-05:00`. Now, timezone can be replaced using `.replace(tzinfo="new_time_zone")` method applied on the datetime object. UTC timezone can be accessed using `dt.timezone.utc` attribute.

- Timezone database in the package `dateutil` and module `tz`
```
from dateutil import tz
timezone_object_et = tz.gettz('America/New York')
```
which creates a timezone object for Eastern time for 'America/New York'. Then this timezone object can be applied to a datetime object using `tzinfo = "timezone_object_et"` attribute. 

	- Timezone set using the `tz` module will account for Daylight time changes

----

## Handling datetime with `pandas`
   - Pandas can import datetime using `parse_dates = ["start time","end time"]` in the `pd.read_csv()` function where pandas tries to be smart to parse the format
   - To specify the format, each column can be read first as string and then converted to datetime object using `pd.to_datetime(dataframe["start time"],format = "%Y-%m-%d, %H:%M:%S")` function
   - All other functions can be performed in pandas using the same methods as used in `timedelta`, `datetime`, and `timezone` object, but pandas require the use of `.dt.` before a method (You can think of this as if pandas imports the `datetime` package as `dt`). 
   - Pandas also offers the ability to resample based on Month (`M`), Date(`D`) etc. on a particular columns, perform analysis and plot the data, all in one line. For example, `dataframe.resample("M",on="start time").size().plot(ylim=[0 15])` will pick months from the `start time` column, get the size (in this case total number of values for each month on the "start time" column), and plot it as a line plot!
   - It is also possible to use `groupby` function
   - Use `.dt.tz_localize("America/New_York")` to set timezone, and `.dt.tz_convert("Europe/London")` to convert the time zone.
