---
layout:	default
title:	"Python"
category:	code
date:	2021-11-02 08:00:00 -0000
permalink:	/code/Python
---

## Common errors in Python

1. Unsupported operand type(s) for &: 'int' and 'Int64Index'
	- For multiple conditions within a `DataFrame.loc[]` command: `DataFrame.loc[condition 1 & condition 2]`
	- Make sure you have brackets clearly separating the multiple conditions
	`DataFrame.loc[(condition 1) & (condition 2)]`
2. IndexError: single positional indexer is out-of-bounds
	- Reasons: No output for a particular inflection or statistics. Here, I was trying to find point where temperature increasees over 10% of baseline temperature value. For cases with negligible total increase, this condition obviously will never be met.
3. IndexError: 
	- List assignment index out of range
	- When Accessing DataFrame indices of the index, use `DataFrame.index[#]` and while accessing other data, use `DataFrame.loc['Row','Column name']` or `DataFrame.iloc[Row #, column #]` 
4. Csv.writer issues
	- 'a' appends to existing file, 'w' over writes
	- I was trying to output thermal statistics of a large dataset, writing with csv goes like this:

	```
		header = ['Column A','Time (Example)','Temperature (C)']

		with open('All_stats_thermal_hazard.csv', 'w', encoding='UTF8') as ff:
		
		writer = csv.writer(ff)

		# write the header
		writer.writerow(header)

		# write the data
		writer.writerow(data_print)

	```
	This will work great if your `data_print` is a single, complete dataset. But if the `data_print` gets updated within a loop, csv writer will replace the old `data_print` with a new one. To avoid this and _append_ the new `data_print`, simple change the `open('filename.csv','a',encoding='UTF8')` with `open('filename.csv','w',encoding='UTF8')`

5. AttributeError: 'list' object has no attribute 'split'
	- Sometimes its just a simple struggle with syntax error
	- Correct syntax = `string.split('delimiter')` and not `split(string,'delimiter')` as in MATLAB
6. KeyError: False
	- The specific column name, key name does not exist
7. AttributeError: 'list' object has no attribute 'loc'
	- DataFrame can be accessed using `loc` or `iloc` attributes, but data within the lists can directly be accessed by giving the index of the desired data. Ex. `list[0,1]`
8. IndexError: single positional indexer is out-of-bounds
	- Index more than the size of the DataFrame or list. 

## User warnings
1. FixedFormatter should only be used together with FixedLocator
 - A warning issued when tick labels in matplotlib were changed using `axis.set_xticklabels(xlabels)` where `xlabels` was a user defined array of labels
 - Requires a complex solution which I could not find yet